specification/rft.md, before:

---
stand_alone: true
ipr: trust200902
cat: info # Check
submissiontype: IETF
area: Applications
wg: TUM Protocol Design Group 2323

docname: draft-rfcxml-general-template-standard-00
obsoletes: 4711, 4712 # Remove if not needed/Replace
updates: 4710 # Remove if not needed/Replace

title: Robust File Transfer
abbrev: RFT
lang: en
kw: Internet-Draft
# date: 2022-02-02 -- date is filled in automatically by xml2rfc if not given
author:
- role: editor # remove if not true
  ins: N. Stangl
  name: Niklas Stangl
  org: Technical University of Munich
  street: Boltzmannstraße 3
  city: Garching
  code: 85748
  country: DE # use TLD (except UK) or country name
  email: niklas.stangl@tum.de
- role: editor # remove if not true
  ins: J. Pfannschmidt
  name: Johannes Pfannschmidt
  org: Technical University of Munich
  street: Boltzmannstraße 3
  city: Garching
  code: 85748
  country: DE # use TLD (except UK) or country name
  email: johannes.pfannschmidt@cs.tum.edu
- role: editor # remove if not true
  ins: S. Gierens
  name: Sandro-Alessio Gierens
  org: Technical University of Munich
  street: Boltzmannstraße 3
  city: Garching
  code: 85748
  country: DE # use TLD (except UK) or country name
  email: sandro.gierens@tum.de

normative:
  RFC0768: #UDP
  RFC0768: #TCP-CCA
  RFC9000: #QUIC
  RFC3629: #UTF-8 strings
  RFC3385: #CRC32


--- abstract

Robust File Transfer (RFT) is a file-transfer protocol on top of UDP.
It is connection-oriented and stateful, supporting connection migration based on connection IDs similar to QUIC.
RFT provides point-to-point operation between a client and a server, enabling IP address migration, flow control, congestion control, and partial or resumed file transfers using offsets and lengths.

--- middle

# Introduction

The Protocol Design WG is tasked with standardizing an Application Protocol for a robust file transfer protocol, RFT.
This protocol is intended to provide point-to-point operation between a client and a server built upon UDP {{RFC0768}}.
It supports connection migration based on connection IDs, in spirit similar to QUIC {{RFC9000}}, although a bit easier.

RFT is based on UDP, connection-oriented and stateful.
A point-to-point connection supports IP address migration, flow control, congestion control and allows to transfers of a specific length and offset, which can be useful to resume interrupted transfers or partial transfers.
The protocol guarantees in-order delivery for all packets belonging to a stream.
There is no such guarantee for messages belonging to different streams.

## Keywords

{::boilerplate bcp14-tagged}

## Terms

The following terms are used throughout this document:

{:vspace}
Client:
: The endpoint of a connection that initiated it and issues commands over it.

Server:
: The endpoint of a connection that listens for and accepts connections
from clients and answers their commands.

Connection:
: A communication channel between a client and server identified by a
single connection ID unique on both ends.

Packet:
: An RFT datagram send as UDP SDU over a connection containing zero or multiple
frames.

Frame:
: A typed and sized information unit making up (possible with others) the
payload of an RFT packet.

Empty Packet:
: A packet without frames.

Command:
: A typed request initiated by the client to the server, e.g. to initiate
a file transfer.

Sender:
: The endpoint sending a packet or frame.

Receiver:
: The endpoint receiving a packet or frame.

## Notation

This document defines `U4`, `U8`, `U16`, `U32`, `U64` as unsigned 4-, 8-, 16-, 32-, or 64-bit integers.
A `string` is a UTF-8 {{RFC3629}} encoded zero-terminated string.

Messages are represented in a C struct-like notation. They may be annotated by C-style comments.
All members are laid out continuously on wire, any padding will be made explicit.
Constant values are assigned with a "=".

~~~~ LANGUAGE-REPLACE/DELETE
StructName1 (Length) {
    TypeName1     FieldName1,
    TypeName2     FieldName2,
    TypeName3[4]  FieldName3,
    String        FieldName4,
    StructName2   FieldName5,
}
~~~~
{: title='Message format notation' }

Commit message:

feat(spec): mention streams in abstract and intro
Signed-off-by: Sandro-Alessio Gierens <sandro@gierens.de>

specification/rft.md, after:

---
stand_alone: true
ipr: trust200902
cat: info # Check
submissiontype: IETF
area: Applications
wg: TUM Protocol Design Group 2323

docname: draft-rfcxml-general-template-standard-00
obsoletes: 4711, 4712 # Remove if not needed/Replace
updates: 4710 # Remove if not needed/Replace

title: Robust File Transfer
abbrev: RFT
lang: en
kw: Internet-Draft
# date: 2022-02-02 -- date is filled in automatically by xml2rfc if not given
author:
- role: editor # remove if not true
  ins: N. Stangl
  name: Niklas Stangl
  org: Technical University of Munich
  street: Boltzmannstraße 3
  city: Garching
  code: 85748
  country: DE # use TLD (except UK) or country name
  email: niklas.stangl@tum.de
- role: editor # remove if not true
  ins: J. Pfannschmidt
  name: Johannes Pfannschmidt
  org: Technical University of Munich
  street: Boltzmannstraße 3
  city: Garching
  code: 85748
  country: DE # use TLD (except UK) or country name
  email: johannes.pfannschmidt@cs.tum.edu
- role: editor # remove if not true
  ins: S. Gierens
  name: Sandro-Alessio Gierens
  org: Technical University of Munich
  street: Boltzmannstraße 3
  city: Garching
  code: 85748
  country: DE # use TLD (except UK) or country name
  email: sandro.gierens@tum.de

normative:
  RFC0768: #UDP
  RFC0768: #TCP-CCA
  RFC9000: #QUIC
  RFC3629: #UTF-8 strings
  RFC3385: #CRC32


--- abstract

Robust File Transfer (RFT) is a file-transfer protocol on top of UDP.
It is connection-oriented, stream-parallel and stateful, supporting connection migration based on connection IDs similar to QUIC.
RFT provides point-to-point operation between a client and a server, enabling IP address migration, flow control, congestion control, and partial or resumed file transfers using offsets and lengths.

--- middle

# Introduction

The Protocol Design WG is tasked with standardizing an Application Protocol for a robust file transfer protocol, RFT.
This protocol is intended to provide point-to-point operation between a client and a server built upon UDP {{RFC0768}}.
It supports connection migration based on connection IDs, in spirit similar to QUIC {{RFC9000}}, although a bit easier.

RFT is based on UDP, connection-oriented, stateful and uses streams for each file transfer
allowing for parallelization.
A point-to-point connection supports IP address migration, flow control, congestion control and allows to transfers of a specific length and offset, which can be useful to resume interrupted transfers or partial transfers.
The protocol guarantees in-order delivery for all packets belonging to a stream.
There is no such guarantee for messages belonging to different streams.

## Keywords

{::boilerplate bcp14-tagged}

## Terms

The following terms are used throughout this document:

{:vspace}
Client:
: The endpoint of a connection that initiated it and issues commands over it.

Server:
: The endpoint of a connection that listens for and accepts connections
from clients and answers their commands.

Connection:
: A communication channel between a client and server identified by a
single connection ID unique on both ends.

Packet:
: An RFT datagram send as UDP SDU over a connection containing zero or multiple
frames.

Frame:
: A typed and sized information unit making up (possible with others) the
payload of an RFT packet.

Empty Packet:
: A packet without frames.

Command:
: A typed request initiated by the client to the server, e.g. to initiate
a file transfer.

Sender:
: The endpoint sending a packet or frame.

Receiver:
: The endpoint receiving a packet or frame.

## Notation

This document defines `U4`, `U8`, `U16`, `U32`, `U64` as unsigned 4-, 8-, 16-, 32-, or 64-bit integers.
A `string` is a UTF-8 {{RFC3629}} encoded zero-terminated string.

Messages are represented in a C struct-like notation. They may be annotated by C-style comments.
All members are laid out continuously on wire, any padding will be made explicit.
Constant values are assigned with a "=".

~~~~ LANGUAGE-REPLACE/DELETE
StructName1 (Length) {
    TypeName1     FieldName1,
    TypeName2     FieldName2,
    TypeName3[4]  FieldName3,
    String        FieldName4,
    StructName2   FieldName5,
}
~~~~
{: title='Message format notation' }
